Waves of Devotion

A Song Recalling the Omniscient King of Dharma

by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Care for me! Care for me! Omniscient king of Dharma, care for me!

In the luminous sky of the pure dharmadhātu,Compassion’s sun and moon emit rays of lightTo banish
delusion’s darkness from my mind—Omniscient guru, inspire me with your blessings!

Within the all-encompassing view beyond elaborationLe clear light meditation connect day and
night,And action bring the natural liberation of whatever arises—Omniscient guru, inspire
me with your blessings!

Inspire me to tear apart the false caveOf these various deluded perceptions,Which, while non-existent,
arise temporarilyDue to negative habits that have no beginning.

The great demon of ignorance and delusionLodged in my heart brings bewilderment,And, as it is
a veil, prevents my seeingAll-pervasive dharmatā, naturally arisen wisdom—Omniscient One,
help me to dispel it this very day!

As I leave these manifold sights in their natureAnd find great confidence in spontaneous freedom,No
longer trapped in the hundred ills of existence,Show me the face of the child of pristine
wisdom!

The king of self-arisen, self-manifest awarenessIs like brandishing a lance in wide open space.Let
me release my own awareness, undirected,Into the expansive, entirely even dharmadhātu.


Care for me! Care for me! O omniscient guru,Perfectly awakened Drimé Özer,Watch over me in your
compassion.

I am but a fool who holds the title of an incarnation,Immersed in the vast ocean of negative
karma,An old evil-doer, like a sack of ill-gotten offerings.Having sunk my vows and commitments,I
look set to attain Vajra Hell in the hereafter.May you always look upon me, wicked
as I am,With wisdom eyes and embrace me with your care.All-knowing guru, lead this old fool
to freedom,Guide him as a noble spiritual friend and protector.

Sacred Dharma, profound and vast, might be spread before meLike grass, but old dog that I am,
I treat it all as unimportant.When I’m immune to the Dharma and turn my back on it,Deploy
the full force of your knowledge, love and power.Lead me, right away, out of this mire of
saṃsāra!Extinguish the great fires of conditioned existenceWith the rains of your compassion,
here and now!

From this moment on, throughout all my lives to come,Help me to make the most of the freedoms
and advantages!

Inspire me with your blessings, O omniscient guru,To recollect impermanence and mortalityAnd
gain determination to escape ordinary existence!

Inspire me to cultivate again and again supreme bodhicitta,The sole heart-treasure of the Mahāyāna
path,To work tirelessly in the service of beings,And, as in the liberating lives of
the bodhisattvas of the Three Families,To become a source of infinite benefit to others.


Inspire me with your blessings, O omniscient guru,So that everything I do—physically, verbally
and mentally—Is for the sake of sentient beings, my own fathers and mothers,And so that
I may empty the six realms from their very depths.

Inspire me with your blessings, O omniscient guru,So that through the yoga of the highest vehicle,
the clear light of awareness and emptiness,I may perfect the realization of primordial
purity and spontaneous presence,And actualize the infinite vast, expanse ('Longchen Rabjam’).


Omniscient guru, Drimé Özer,No matter what befalls me, be it happiness or sorrow, good or ill,May
you care for and inspire me with your blessings!Ever so swiftly now, inspire me with
your blessings!In this very place, right here, inspire me with your blessings!

Omniscient guru, ensure that all your son’s actions,Everything that he does, is meaningful!


In short, inspire me with your blessings,So that I may be inseparable from you, King of Dharma.Care
for me! Care for me! O omniscient guru, care for me!

Thus, I prayed spontaneously when remembering the omniscient guru on the twenty-fifth day of
the Uttarabhadrapadā month of the Water Monkey year (1932).

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.