A Spontaneous Vajra Song1
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

pa lama jé la güpé dü
Respectfully I bow before the noble father-guru.
bu nyön dang rikden yeshe drön
Listen child, noble Yeshe Drön—Wisdom Light.
When chanting this text aloud in assemblies, it is good to begin from here:
khordé tongchen gyi kongbu ru
In the vast empty vessel of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
kadak yeshe kyi marmé bar
I light the lamp of primordially pure wisdom.
chönyi rangsal gyi chöpa bul
I offer the gift of naturally luminous dharmatā.
yeshe ku nga yi ngödrub tsol
Grant the siddhi of the five wisdoms and kāyas.

rigpa kadak gi kongbu ru
In the vessel of primordially pure awareness,
lhündrub ösal gyi marmé bar
I light the lamp of spontaneously present luminosity.
jatsol lodral gyi chöpa bul
I offer the gift of freedom from any notion of exertion.
nang zhi tarchin gyi ngödrub tsol
Grant the siddhi of perfecting the four visions.

nangwa ösal gyi kongbu ru
In the vessel of the luminous visions,
ku dang yeshe kyi marmé bar
I light the lamp of the kāyas and wisdoms.
kadak tingsal gyi chöpa bul
I offer the gift of primordially pure, profound clarity.
chö zé chenpo yi ngödrub tsol
Grant the siddhi of the great exhaustion of phenomena.

chö zé lodé kyi kongbu ru
In the vessel of phenomenal exhaustion beyond the mind,
ku sum yermé kyi marmé bar
I light the lamp of the indivisible three kāyas.
khorwa dongtruk kyi chöpa bul
I offer the gift of emptying saṃsāra from its depths.
zhendön tarchin gyi ngödrub tsol
Grant the siddhi of consummate benefit to others.

drak tong dorjé tol lu
Through this vajra song of sonic emptiness
gangshar shuk jung jö di
Expressing whatever arose spontaneously,
nyinang trulpé semchen
May beings caught in dualistic delusion
nyimé long du gyur chik
Enter the expanse that is free from duality.

In the chamber of great luminosityWithin the Lotus Crystal Cave of Great Bliss,The child of
wisdom awarenessExperienced a blazing of visionary experienceAnd proclaimed this vajra song.

May virtue abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols.
Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. (W1KG12986) Vol. 8: 516–517

Version: 1.0-20220304
↑ The original is untitled; this title has been added by the translator.