The Rain of Wisdom Blessings
A Song of Prayer to the Guru
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

a ho
Aho!
rangjung ngaden jazer trukpa yi long na
Amidst an expanse of self-arisen, five-coloured rainbow light,1
pa chik drinchen lama chökyi lodrö khyé khyen no
My only father, gracious guru, Chökyi Lodrö, watch over me!
dakchak lé ngen trulpa yi wang duma tong
Do not allow us, whose karma is so wicked, to fall prey to delusion
si lé ngejung kyewar jin gyi rang lob shik
But inspire us with the determination to escape conditioned existence!

zhenpen tukjé terchen gyalsé khyé khyen no
Great treasure of altruism and compassion, heir to the victorious, watch over me!
dakdzin gongpo di nyi tsarchö zhik jé té
Inspire me to subjugate this demon of self-clinging,
dakwé zhen ché changchub sem chok ni jong né
Master the sublime bodhicitta of cherishing others above myself,
dro dön khakhyab jungwar jin gyi rang lob shik
And become a source of benefit for beings throughout the whole of space.

dorjé rigdzin pemakara yi gyaltsab
Vajra vidyādhara, representative of Padmākara,
yeshe dorjé ösal nyingpo tsal khyen no
Yeshe Dorje Ösal Nyingpo Tsal, watch over me!
wang zhi chugyün dak gi go sum la kur né
Confer the stream of four empowerments on my three doors,
dorjé zhi ru minpar jin gyi rang lob shik
And bless me with maturation as the four vajras!

jikme namkhé dorjé yeshe kyi kuchen
Jigme Namkhai Dorje in your wisdom form,
bi mé trulpa tsewang drubpa tsal khyen no
Vima’s emanation, Tsewang Drubpa Tsal, watch over me!
zungdzin toktsok chönyi namkha la deng né
Inspire me with your blessings, so that dualistic thoughts may dissolve into the space of dharmatā,
ösal nang zhi tarchin jin gyi rang lob shik
And I may reach the culmination of the four visions of clear light!

deng né zung té changchub nyingpo yi bardu
From this moment on, until I reach the essence of enlightenment,
palgön chöjé lama khyé zhab su kyé né
Inspire me with your blessings, O glorious guru, protector, lord of Dharma, so that I may be
reborn in your presence,
tuk kyi chü tob nyamlen ta ru ni chin té
Receive the essence of your wisdom mind, perfect the practice,
kham sum dong né trukpar jin gyi rang lob shik
And empty the three realms from their very depths!

Chökyi Lodrö wrote this in Drakmar Keutsang for his own student Parkö Chöpel, who has a mind
of faith and pure perception and who provided writing materials and a gift of various precious
substances when making the request in Chimpu’s Gurkar cave.2 Siddhirastu! Sarva maṅgalam!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "bla ma la gsol ba 'debs pa'i glu ye shes byin 'bebs/"
In 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012.
(W1KG12986) Vol. 8: 535–536

Version: 1.0-20220303
↑ Reading 'khrugs pa as 'khrigs pa.↑ The White Tent cave. For more information see Akester,
Matthew. Jamyang Khyentsé Wangpo's Guide to Central Tibet. Chicago: Serindia Publications,
2016, p. 334.