Disheartened by Circumstances[1]

An Acrostic Poem

by Longchen Rabjam

Oṃ svasti siddhaṃ!Those who rely on you gain the treasury of complete liberation;You are the
basis upon which perfect knowledge and freedom arise,The only true friends who bring virtue
and good to all beings—Supreme saṅgha assembly, kindly lend your ears to a few verses.


Akin to rākṣasa demons roaming through Kaliṅka’s lands,Bandits in the Land of Snows are they,
these Khampa tribes.Causing mayhem in whichever towns or places they visit—Did you see them,
the swaggerers, so lustful and aggressive?

Excitable and raucous by nature, these crowds of Khampas,Flying about the ten directions as
if forever on the move,[2]Guzzling tea and alchohol, these slaughterers of animals—Have you
seen them, those who live like fishermen?

Imitating tigers or leopards prowling through palm groves,Joyfully, they frequent squalid taverns
and dens of thieves,Knocking back lizard concoctions and inflamed by passion—Look at
them, racing about in pursuit of young maidens!

Malodorous as a garden filled with rotten vegetables,[3]Nauseating with the stench of alcohol,
garlic and onions,Oblivious as cattle as to what is clean and what is not—Perhaps you’ve
seen them, these uncouth Khampa beasts!

Quick to take flight, they are, the very moment conflict arises,Reminiscent of nocturnal creatures
disturbed by warming rays.Similar to those in the petty kingdom of Jaradangra,They
flee just like foxes—have you not seen them?

Upon their heads are helmets even as they visit innocent places.Violently, they assault residents
just to satisfy their appetites.[4]"We are without shame," they themselves will happily
admit.eXtraordinary how uncouth these Khampas are! Have you seen them?

Yearning to slaughter goats, sheep, oxen and other beasts, theyZoom across passes and rivers
and through ravines, ransacking villages.Ah, just look at them, these meat-eating, alcohol-guzzling
womanizers!Have you ever seen such plunderers of the teachings in this world?

Such fatally absurd and egregious ways constitute a form ofStudy, contemplation and meditation
for our Khampa brethren!

These verses based on the thirty letters of the alphabetI affixed at the crossroads when driven
from my residence.

Ngakgi Wangpo of Samye composed this at Sangphu Neuthog. May it be a cause for virtue and excellence
to abound!

| Translated (with prosaic licence) by Adam Pearcey, 2022.