The Cloud Messenger

A Song of Prayer to the Omniscient Guru

by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Ahoye!In the space of primordial purity that has always been great emptiness,Is natural radiance,
the luminous rainbow tent of five-coloured lightAnd the resonant expression, supreme
nirmāṇakāya awareness—All-knowing father, king of Dharma, care for me!

Your form is a mass of pristine wisdom, undefiled and immaculate,The maṇḍala of the three seats,
adorned with the marks and signs.This is not something external but is complete within
myself,The natural, spontaneous expression of the unaltered ground.

Pure and simple awareness, present at this very moment,Which is entirely nameless, indefinable
and inexpressible,Is the naturally arisen, illusory display, the vajra-like array—In this
experience of self-knowing rigpa, I have met my own true face.

Glorious and perfect buddha Immaculate Radiance,You alone are my sovereign source of hope and
trust.Having decided that there is no other refuge but you,I, your child, experience a sense
of contentment and ease.

Spontaneously perfect three-kāya master, lord over existence and peace,In the perception of
beings, who are as infinite in number as space is vast,There appears an inconceivable play
of illusory manifestations, pure and impure,And you are the protector from whom all emanates,
into whom all is reabsorbed.

All-knowing father and guru, Longchen Rabjam,Hearing your name dispels the terrors of existence
and peace.O Protector, remain in the centre of my heart,Banish this delusion of mine,
this dualistic perception,Intensify the pristine wisdom of space and awareness,And inspire
me with blessings that I may become your equal.

Give me the power to free all beings of the three realms,Especially those with whom I’m connected,
from suffering,To lead them to pure realms such as Sukhāvatī in the West,And thus be
able to empty saṃsāra from its very depths.

I, Pema Yeshe Dorje, offered this prayer on the master’s anniversary in the twelfth month of
the Earth Ox year. May virtue abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.